# EaFramework
The EA-Framework includes the algorithms SPEA2, Pruefer-EA and SMSEMOA.
The following list presents an overview of all available parameters. Note that the visibility of some of the parameters might depend on certain conditions, e.g. the numTournamentRounds parameter will only be visible if the selectorName parameter is set to tournament selection.

* preset: Preset to use. Each preset sets valid parameters for a 'standard' execution of an algorithm.
* eaName: Name of the EA to execute.
* autoGenerateSeed: If this is set to yes, a new random seed will be generated by the algorithm. Otherwise you can specify a random seed to use.
* makeGraphComplete: If this parameter is true then all missing edges will be added with infinite weights. Use this if the selected algorithms or operators are supposed to work on a complete graph (e.g. Pruefer-Encoding).
* seed: Random seed in order to reproduce results. If this parameter is not set, a new random seed will be created and logged.
* creatorName: Name of the creation strategy to use. This implicitly specifies the genotype.
* mutatorName: Name of the mutation strategy to use. Note that the selected operator has to be compatible with genotype that is used (The genotype is implicitly defined by selecting a creator Algorithm)!
* recombinatorName: Name of the recombination strategy to use. Note that the selected operator has to be compatible with genotype that is used (The genotype is implicitly defined by selecting a creator Algorithm)!
* selectorName: Name of the selection strategy to use. The selected evaluator will automatically set a parameter for fitness minimization or maximization.
* mappingName: Name of the Genotype-Phenotype-Mapping (GPM) strategy to use. This implicitly specifies the phenotype. Note that the selected operator has to support the selected genotype (The genotype is implicitly defined by selecting a creator Algorithm)!
* evaluatorName: Name of the evaluation strategy to use. The selected operator automatically defines whether the fitness is to be minimized or maximized.
* terminatorName: Name of the termination strategy to use.
* popSize: Size of the population.
* offspringSize: Number of offsprings to create in one generation.
* archiveSize: Size of the archive.
* mutatorProbability: Mutation probability.
* recombinatorProbability: Recombination probability.
* numTournamentRounds: Number of rounds in a selection tournament.
* maxGenerations: Maximum number of generations.
* maxTime: Time limit for the execution (in ms).
* fitnessThreshold: Fitness threshold. The algorithm will exit if and when a better fitness is reached.
* maxDegree: Maximum degree for MST solutions. Set this to 0 in order to disable a degree limit.
* constantFitnessGenLimit: Terminate after X generations of constant fitness (constant sum of all fitness values of the given generation). Use a value of 0 or less to deactivate this parameter.
* createInitialPopFromST: Creation of the initial population using random spanning trees. If it is false, random pruefer numbers are generated.

